open-metadata-implementation/adapters/open-connectors/repository-services-connectors/open-metadata-collection-store-connectors/README.md, before:

<!-- SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-4.0 -->
<!-- Copyright Contributors to the ODPi Egeria project. -->
  
# Open Metadata Collection Store Connectors

The open metadata collection store connectors connect the
**[Open Metadata Repository Services (OMRS)](https://egeria-project.org/services/omrs)** to
an existing metadata repository.
This enables the metadata repository to join
an **[Open Metadata Repository Cohort](https://egeria-project.org/concepts/cohort-member)**.

There are two types of connector:
* an open metadata repository connector, and
* an optional open metadata repository event mapper.

There is **[more documentation](docs/README.md)** on these connectors to
help developers understand more about building their own.

Below are some pre-built repository connectors from Egeria that natively manage
the open metadata types and instances and so can provide the local repository
implementation in a [Metadata Access Store](https://egeria-project.org/concepts/metadata-access-store).

* **[graph-repository-connector](graph-repository-connector)** -
provides a local repository that uses a graph store as its persistence store.

* **[inmemory-repository-connector](inmemory-repository-connector)** -
provides a local repository that is entirely in memory.  It is useful for
testing/developing OMASs and demos.  This module also contains the  **read-only-repository-connector** that
provides a read only in-memory repository that can be used to host fixed content from an
[Open Metadata Archive](https://egeria-project.org/concepts/open-metadata-archive).
The fact that it is read only means that no new content can be mastered in it.

Finally, there is  the **[omrs-rest-repository-connector](omrs-rest-repository-connector)**
which uses the OMRS REST API to call an open metadata-compliant repository.
This connector is used to support the
[federated queries](../../../../repository-services/docs/component-descriptions/enterprise-connector-manager.md) across a cohort.
It is embedded in the [enterprise repository connector](../../../../repository-services/docs/component-descriptions/enterprise-repository-connector.md)
that provides metadata to
the [access services](../../../../access-services).




----
Return to [repository-services-connectors](..)

----
License: [CC BY 4.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/),
Copyright Contributors to the ODPi Egeria project.

Commit message:

git6998 add a caching repository connector
Signed-off-by: David Radley <david_radley@uk.ibm.com>

open-metadata-implementation/adapters/open-connectors/repository-services-connectors/open-metadata-collection-store-connectors/README.md, after:

<!-- SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-4.0 -->
<!-- Copyright Contributors to the ODPi Egeria project. -->
  
# Open Metadata Collection Store Connectors

The open metadata collection store connectors connect the
**[Open Metadata Repository Services (OMRS)](https://egeria-project.org/services/omrs)** to
an existing metadata repository.
This enables the metadata repository to join
an **[Open Metadata Repository Cohort](https://egeria-project.org/concepts/cohort-member)**.

There are two types of connector:
* an open metadata repository connector, and
* an optional open metadata repository event mapper.

There is **[more documentation](docs/README.md)** on these connectors to
help developers understand more about building their own.

Below are some pre-built repository connectors from Egeria that natively manage
the open metadata types and instances and so can provide the local repository
implementation in a [Metadata Access Store](https://egeria-project.org/concepts/metadata-access-store).

* **[graph-repository-connector](graph-repository-connector)** -
provides a local repository that uses a graph store as its persistence store.

* **[inmemory-repository-connector](inmemory-repository-connector)** -
provides a local repository that is entirely in memory.  It is useful for
testing/developing OMASs and demos.  This module also contains the  **read-only-repository-connector** that
provides a read only in-memory repository that can be used to host fixed content from an
[Open Metadata Archive](https://egeria-project.org/concepts/open-metadata-archive).
The fact that it is read only means that no new content can be mastered in it.

* **[omrs-caching-repository-connector](omrs-caching-repository-connector)** -
  provides an embedded local repository.  It is useful for repository proxies, where there is an event mapper getting 3rd party technology, which it writes to this repository.
  The fact that it is read only means that no new content can be mastered in it.

Finally, there is  the **[omrs-rest-repository-connector](omrs-rest-repository-connector)**
which uses the OMRS REST API to call an open metadata-compliant repository.
This connector is used to support the
[federated queries](../../../../repository-services/docs/component-descriptions/enterprise-connector-manager.md) across a cohort.
It is embedded in the [enterprise repository connector](../../../../repository-services/docs/component-descriptions/enterprise-repository-connector.md)
that provides metadata to
the [access services](../../../../access-services).




----
Return to [repository-services-connectors](..)

----
License: [CC BY 4.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/),
Copyright Contributors to the ODPi Egeria project.
