<!-- SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-4.0 -->
<!-- Copyright Contributors to the ODPi Egeria project. -->

# OMRS Exception Descriptions

## OMRS Checked Exceptions

* `ClassificationErrorException` - the classification request is not known to the metadata collection.
* `EntityConflictException` - the new entity passed to the metadata collection conflicts with an existing entity.
* `EntityNotDeletedException` - the entity is not in DELETED status and so cannot be purged.
* `EntityNotKnownException` - the requested entity instance is not known in the metadata collection.
* `EntityProxyOnlyException` - the requested entity instance is only a proxy in the metadata collection.
* `FunctionNotSupportedException` - an optional function has been requested that this repository does not support.
* `HomeEntityException` - the entity belongs to the local repository so creating a reference copy would be invalid.
* `HomeRelationshipException` - the relationship belongs to the local repository so creating a reference copy would be invalid.
* `InvalidEntityException` - the new entity has invalid contents.
* `InvalidParameterException` - a mandatory parameter is either null or set to an invalid value.
* `InvalidRelationshipException` - the new relationship has invalid contents.
* `InvalidTypeDefException` - the new TypeDef has invalid contents.
* `PagingErrorException` - the paging/sequencing parameters are set up incorrectly.
* `PatchErrorException` - the TypeDef cannot be updated because the supplied patch is incompatible with the stored TypeDef.
* `PropertyErrorException` - the sequencing property is not valid for the attached classifications.
* `RelationshipConflictException` - a new relationship conflicts with an existing relationship.
* `RelationshipNotDeletedException` - the requested relationship is not in DELETED status.
* `RelationshipNotKnownException` - the metadata collection does not have a relationship with the requested GUID stored.
* `RepositoryErrorException` - a problem communicating with the metadata repository.
This may be caused by a configuration error, or a server outage.
* `StatusNotSupportedException` - the metadata repository hosting the metadata collection does not support the requested status.
* `TypeDefConflictException` - the new TypeDef conflicts with an existing TypeDef.
* `TypeDefInUseException` - the TypeDef cannot be deleted because there are instances of this type in the
the metadata collection.  These instances need to be purged before the TypeDef can be deleted.
* `TypeDefKnownException` - the TypeDef is already stored in the repository.
* `TypeDefNotKnownException` - the requested TypeDef is not known in the metadata collection.
* `TypeDefNotSupportedException` - the repository is not able to support this TypeDef.
* `TypeErrorException` - the type guid passed on the request is not known by the metadata collection.  
* `UserNotAuthorizedException` - the userId passed on the call is not permitted to perform this operation.

## OMRS Runtime Exceptions

* `NotImplementedRuntimeException` - used when an OMRS function has been called that has not yet
been implemented - an opportunity to contribute :).
* `OMRSConnectorErrorException` - used for all runtime exceptions generated by the
Open Metadata Repository Services (OMRS)
components that indicate a problem with one of its connectors.
It is typically wrapping an OCF checked exception.
* `OMRSLogicErrorException` - used when the OMRS detects an error in its processing.
This may be due to a configuration error but is much more likely to be a bug in the
OMRS code.


----
Return to [repository services design](..)

----
License: [CC BY 4.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/),
Copyright Contributors to the ODPi Egeria project.

