open-metadata-implementation/access-services/README.md, before:

<!-- SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-4.0 -->
<!-- Copyright Contributors to the ODPi Egeria project. -->
  
# Open Metadata Access Services (OMAS)

The Open Metadata Access Services (OMAS) provide domain-specific services
for data tools, engines and platforms to integrate with open metadata.

The access services are as follows:

* **[asset-consumer](asset-consumer)** - create connectors to access assets.

  The Asset Consumer OMAS is designed for applications that are using OCF connectors to access data stores, APIs and
functions such as analytics.  The Asset Consumer OMAS provides a factory function
for the connectors, the ability to retrieve all the metadata about the asset and the ability to add feedback on the asset.

* **[asset-lineage](asset-lineage)** - Track and publish lineage data.

  The Asset Lineage OMAS listens to relevant lineage related events on the Enterprise topic level and publishes these on
the Asset Lineage OutTopic, combined with relevant context information on the described entities. These events are 
listened to by the Lineage Warehouse Services governance server.  

* **[asset-manager](asset-manager)** - manage exchange of metadata with third party metadata catalogs and
asset managers.

  The Asset Manager OMAS is typically called by the
[Catalog Integrator OMIS](../integration-services/catalog-integrator) to send and receive
asset information, including schemas, profiles, policies and lineage
information with a third party asset manager.  Typical examples of asset managers include
data catalogs that are managing metadata for a collection of data assets for a
data-serving solution.  The asset manager is also called by the
[Lineage Integrator OMIS](../integration-services/lineage-integrator) to capture design lineage
from data engines and other processing services.
It also supports the [Glossary Browser OMVS](../view-services/glossary-browser) and
[Glossary Workflow OMVS](../view-services/glossary-workflow).

* **[asset-owner](asset-owner)** - manage metadata and feedback for owned assets.

  The Asset Owner OMAS provides services for an asset owner to curate metadata about their
asset(s) and understand how these assets are being used and governed.

* **[community-profile](community-profile)** - manage personal profiles and communities.
  
  The Community Profile OMAS supports the administration for a community and related user profiles.  These communities are
involved in reviewing and crowd-sourcing knowledge about the data assets and their use.

* **[data-engine](data-engine)** - exchange metadata with a data processing engine.
                                   
  The Data Engine OMAS provides APIs and events for a data movement/processing
engine to record the changes it is making to the data landscape. 
This information forms a key part of asset lineage.

* **[data-manager](data-manager)** - exchange metadata with a data manager.

  The Data Manager OMAS provides technology-specific APIs to enable technologies that manage collections of data
such as database servers, file systems, file managers and content managers to publish metadata to the metadata
repositories about the changing structures and content stored in the data platform.
It is called from the
[API Integrator OMIS](../integration-services/api-integrator),
[Database Integrator OMIS](../integration-services/database-integrator),
[Display Integrator OMIS](../integration-services/display-integrator),
[Files Integrator OMIS](../integration-services/files-integrator) and
[Topic Integrator OMIS](../integration-services/topic-integrator).


* **[data-privacy](data-privacy)** - support a data privacy officer.

  The Data Privacy OMAS supports a privacy officer as they manage data privacy
in their organization.
This includes managing privacy impact assessments and reviews of software services
that use personal data as they move through their development, deployment and use.

* **[data-science](data-science)** - manage metadata for analytics.

  The Data Science OMAS provides access to metadata for data assets,
connections and projects, plus the ability to maintain metadata about data science notebooks
and models and log activity during the analytics development process.
It is designed for data science and analytics management tools.

* **[design-model](design-model)** - exchange design model content from tools and standards.

  The Design Model OMAS provides the ability to manage information from all types of design models.
These models may come from tools or be part of a packaged standard.
This content is useful for governance, system integration and software development.

* **[dev-ops](dev-ops)** - manage metadata for a DevOps pipeline.
  
  The DevOps OMAS provides services for a DevOps pipeline to query and maintain metadata about systems, processes and
software components that are being deployed into the information landscape.

* **[digital-architecture](digital-architecture)** - support the design and architecture of the digital services
that support the business.

  The Digital Architecture OMAS provides the ability to define information standards, definitions, solution blueprints and
models for an organization.  It is designed for architecture tools.  It is able to support the
definition and management of a digital service through concept to deployment.

* **[digital-service](digital-service)** - manage metadata for digital services and products.
  
  The Digital Service OMAS provides services for a managing the lifecycle of a Digital Service and any associated products.

* **[discovery-engine](discovery-engine)** - manage metadata for metadata discovery services.

  The Discovery Engine OMAS provides an API for a discovery engine to access and store
metadata about a digital resource, its schema and the data it stores.

* **[governance-engine](governance-engine)** - manage metadata for an operational governance engine.

  The Governance Engine OMAS provides APIs and events that retrieve and
manage metadata for governance engines.  Governance engines ensure that 
the infrastructure supporting the data landscape is operating according
to the governance program. For example, the governance engine may be ensuring
that individuals and servers
only have access to the data they have been authorized to see.

* **[governance-program](governance-program)** - set up and manage a governance program.

  The Governance Program OMAS provides the ability to maintain a governance program in the open metadata repositories.
It is designed for governance and CDO tools.

* **[it-infrastructure](it-infrastructure)** - manage metadata about deployed infrastructure.

  The IT Infrastructure OMAS provides support for the design and planning of the information infrastructure
that supports the data assets.  This includes the development of system blueprints that link down to the metadata
about real infrastructure components.
This metadata helps in the linkage between information governance metadata
and IT infrastructure management (ITIL) metadata typically stored in a
Configuration Management Database (CMDB).

* **[project-management](project-management)** - manage definitions of projects for metadata
management and governance.

  The Project Management OMAS supports the metadata associated with projects and campaigns.
These projects and campaigns may be for governance projects, or generic data use projects.

* **[security-manager](security-manager)** - exchange security related metadata with security services such as Apache Ranger.

  The Security Manager OMAS provides the services to exchange security tags with access control and data
protection technology services.  It is called by the [Security Integrator OMIS](../integration-services/security-integrator).

* **[security-officer](security-officer)** - set up rules to protect data.

  The Security Officer OMAS provides the services to support the definition of roles and 
rules for managing the protection of metadata and assets, plus work with the audit
logs captured by the open metadata and governance tools.
It is typically used by the security, compliance and auditing teams.

* **[software-developer](software-developer)** - deliver useful metadata to software developers.

  The Software Development OMAS provides access to metadata needed to build compliant APIs,
data stores and related software components.

* **[stewardship-action](stewardship-action)** - manage metadata as part of a data steward's work to
improve the data landscape.

  The Stewardship Action OMAS provides services for managing exceptions discovered in the information landscape that need correcting.
These exceptions may be quality errors, missing or outdated information,
invalid licensing, job failures, and many more.
The Stewardship Action OMAS also enables the review and triage of the exceptions,
simple remediation and status reporting.

* **[subject-area](subject-area)** - develop a glossary.

  The Subject Area OMAS is for tools that support subject-matter experts
who are defining glossaries for a specific subject area, such as "customer data".

## Using the OMASs

The OMASs run in either a [Metadata Access Point](https://egeria-project.org/concepts/metadata-access-point)
or a [Metadata Access Store](https://egeria-project.org/concepts/metadata-access-store).
They can be configured and activated individually or as a complete set.
The [administration services](../admin-services) provide
the ability to configure the access services.  

Each OMAS typically supports a REST API, and optionally, a topic where it publishes notifications
of interest to its users, and a topic where new metadata requests can be posted to the
OMAS.

It also has a Java client that provides access to its API and topics.
This java client is embedded in the
[Engine Services](https://egeria-project.org/services/omes),
[Integration Services](https://egeria-project.org/services/omis) and
[View Services](https://egeria-project.org/services/omvs).

More information on the OMASs can be found in the [Egeria Documentation](https://egeria-project.org/services/omas).

----
Return to [open-metadata-implementation](..).

----
License: [CC BY 4.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/),
Copyright Contributors to the ODPi Egeria project.

Commit message:

Add Governance Server OMAS
Signed-off-by: Mandy Chessell <mandy.e.chessell@gmail.com>

open-metadata-implementation/access-services/README.md, after:

<!-- SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-4.0 -->
<!-- Copyright Contributors to the ODPi Egeria project. -->
  
# Open Metadata Access Services (OMAS)

The Open Metadata Access Services (OMAS) provide domain-specific services
for data tools, engines and platforms to integrate with open metadata.

The access services are as follows:

* **[asset-consumer](asset-consumer)** - create connectors to access assets.

  The Asset Consumer OMAS is designed for applications that are using OCF connectors to access data stores, APIs and
functions such as analytics.  The Asset Consumer OMAS provides a factory function
for the connectors, the ability to retrieve all the metadata about the asset and the ability to add feedback on the asset.

* **[asset-lineage](asset-lineage)** - Track and publish lineage data.

  The Asset Lineage OMAS listens to relevant lineage related events on the Enterprise topic level and publishes these on
the Asset Lineage OutTopic, combined with relevant context information on the described entities. These events are 
listened to by the Lineage Warehouse Services governance server.  

* **[asset-manager](asset-manager)** - manage exchange of metadata with third party metadata catalogs and
asset managers.

  The Asset Manager OMAS is typically called by the
[Catalog Integrator OMIS](../integration-services/catalog-integrator) to send and receive
asset information, including schemas, profiles, policies and lineage
information with a third party asset manager.  Typical examples of asset managers include
data catalogs that are managing metadata for a collection of data assets for a
data-serving solution.  The asset manager is also called by the
[Lineage Integrator OMIS](../integration-services/lineage-integrator) to capture design lineage
from data engines and other processing services.
It also supports the [Glossary Browser OMVS](../view-services/glossary-browser) and
[Glossary Workflow OMVS](../view-services/glossary-workflow).

* **[asset-owner](asset-owner)** - manage metadata and feedback for owned assets.

  The Asset Owner OMAS provides services for an asset owner to curate metadata about their
asset(s) and understand how these assets are being used and governed.

* **[community-profile](community-profile)** - manage personal profiles and communities.
  
  The Community Profile OMAS supports the administration for a community and related user profiles.  These communities are
involved in reviewing and crowd-sourcing knowledge about the data assets and their use.

* **[data-engine](data-engine)** - exchange metadata with a data processing engine.
                                   
  The Data Engine OMAS provides APIs and events for a data movement/processing
engine to record the changes it is making to the data landscape. 
This information forms a key part of asset lineage.

* **[data-manager](data-manager)** - exchange metadata with a data manager.

  The Data Manager OMAS provides technology-specific APIs to enable technologies that manage collections of data
such as database servers, file systems, file managers and content managers to publish metadata to the metadata
repositories about the changing structures and content stored in the data platform.
It is called from the
[API Integrator OMIS](../integration-services/api-integrator),
[Database Integrator OMIS](../integration-services/database-integrator),
[Display Integrator OMIS](../integration-services/display-integrator),
[Files Integrator OMIS](../integration-services/files-integrator) and
[Topic Integrator OMIS](../integration-services/topic-integrator).


* **[data-privacy](data-privacy)** - support a data privacy officer.

  The Data Privacy OMAS supports a privacy officer as they manage data privacy
in their organization.
This includes managing privacy impact assessments and reviews of software services
that use personal data as they move through their development, deployment and use.

* **[data-science](data-science)** - manage metadata for analytics.

  The Data Science OMAS provides access to metadata for data assets,
connections and projects, plus the ability to maintain metadata about data science notebooks
and models and log activity during the analytics development process.
It is designed for data science and analytics management tools.

* **[design-model](design-model)** - exchange design model content from tools and standards.

  The Design Model OMAS provides the ability to manage information from all types of design models.
These models may come from tools or be part of a packaged standard.
This content is useful for governance, system integration and software development.

* **[dev-ops](dev-ops)** - manage metadata for a DevOps pipeline.
  
  The DevOps OMAS provides services for a DevOps pipeline to query and maintain metadata about systems, processes and
software components that are being deployed into the information landscape.

* **[digital-architecture](digital-architecture)** - support the design and architecture of the digital services
that support the business.

  The Digital Architecture OMAS provides the ability to define information standards, definitions, solution blueprints and
models for an organization.  It is designed for architecture tools.  It is able to support the
definition and management of a digital service through concept to deployment.

* **[digital-service](digital-service)** - manage metadata for digital services and products.
  
  The Digital Service OMAS provides services for a managing the lifecycle of a Digital Service and any associated products.

* **[discovery-engine](discovery-engine)** - manage metadata for metadata discovery services.

  The Discovery Engine OMAS provides an API for a discovery engine to access and store
metadata about a digital resource, its schema and the data it stores.

* **[governance-engine](governance-engine)** - manage metadata for an operational governance engine.

  The Governance Engine OMAS provides APIs and events that retrieve and
manage metadata for governance engines.  This OMAS has been replaced by the Governance Server OMAS.

* **[governance-program](governance-program)** - set up and manage a governance program.

  The Governance Program OMAS provides the ability to maintain a governance program in the open metadata repositories.
It is designed for governance and CDO tools.

* **[governance-server](governance-server)** - manage metadata for an operational governance server.

  The Governance Server OMAS provides APIs and events that retrieve and
  manage metadata for the [Engine Host](https://egeria-project.org/concepts/engine-host/) and 
  [Integration Daemon](https://egeria-project.org/concepts/integration-daemon/) governance servers.

* **[it-infrastructure](it-infrastructure)** - manage metadata about deployed infrastructure.

  The IT Infrastructure OMAS provides support for the design and planning of the information infrastructure
that supports the data assets.  This includes the development of system blueprints that link down to the metadata
about real infrastructure components.
This metadata helps in the linkage between information governance metadata
and IT infrastructure management (ITIL) metadata typically stored in a
Configuration Management Database (CMDB).

* **[project-management](project-management)** - manage definitions of projects for metadata
management and governance.

  The Project Management OMAS supports the metadata associated with projects and campaigns.
These projects and campaigns may be for governance projects, or generic data use projects.

* **[security-manager](security-manager)** - exchange security related metadata with security services such as Apache Ranger.

  The Security Manager OMAS provides the services to exchange security tags with access control and data
protection technology services.  It is called by the [Security Integrator OMIS](../integration-services/security-integrator).

* **[security-officer](security-officer)** - set up rules to protect data.

  The Security Officer OMAS provides the services to support the definition of roles and 
rules for managing the protection of metadata and assets, plus work with the audit
logs captured by the open metadata and governance tools.
It is typically used by the security, compliance and auditing teams.

* **[software-developer](software-developer)** - deliver useful metadata to software developers.

  The Software Development OMAS provides access to metadata needed to build compliant APIs,
data stores and related software components.

* **[stewardship-action](stewardship-action)** - manage metadata as part of a data steward's work to
improve the data landscape.

  The Stewardship Action OMAS provides services for managing exceptions discovered in the information landscape that need correcting.
These exceptions may be quality errors, missing or outdated information,
invalid licensing, job failures, and many more.
The Stewardship Action OMAS also enables the review and triage of the exceptions,
simple remediation and status reporting.

* **[subject-area](subject-area)** - develop a glossary.

  The Subject Area OMAS is for tools that support subject-matter experts
who are defining glossaries for a specific subject area, such as "customer data".

## Using the OMASs

The OMASs run in either a [Metadata Access Point](https://egeria-project.org/concepts/metadata-access-point)
or a [Metadata Access Store](https://egeria-project.org/concepts/metadata-access-store).
They can be configured and activated individually or as a complete set.
The [administration services](../admin-services) provide
the ability to configure the access services.  

Each OMAS typically supports a REST API, and optionally, a topic where it publishes notifications
of interest to its users, and a topic where new metadata requests can be posted to the
OMAS.

It also has a Java client that provides access to its API and topics.
This java client is embedded in the
[Engine Services](https://egeria-project.org/services/omes),
[Integration Services](https://egeria-project.org/services/omis) and
[View Services](https://egeria-project.org/services/omvs).

More information on the OMASs can be found in the [Egeria Documentation](https://egeria-project.org/services/omas).

----
Return to [open-metadata-implementation](..).

----
License: [CC BY 4.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/),
Copyright Contributors to the ODPi Egeria project.
